All right, so we've built an amazing
team charter now, we all have clarity.
[LAUGH] So what do you do, what now?
I think it's important that
you've now have this asset and
that you have clarity on your team.
But so what do you do with it?
You wanna share it with your team?
And what I mean by obviously, I emphasize
bring your team along this journey.
When I recently had done this with my
newest team, we pulled in breakouts,
it's about a 20 person team and
so we did smaller breakouts.
And then there is obviously about, I think
we did four to five people breaking out so
you have about four or five exercises or
sheets that we have and
I pulled them together and
I look for common patterns.
I even use ChatGPT to pull out some
of the common themes from them.
And then started to wordsmith some
of the details of, really one to
two sentences of, why do we exist and
making that very clear and concise?
And I did that for each of them and
I brought it back to the team.
And there's a little bit back and
forth, well, I disagree with that.
And so we started to get a little
more clarity and wordsmithing and
that tightens it up.
Then share it with your leadership team,
do they agree with it?
I hope they do, but maybe they don't.
And that can be even just tightening
up alignment if you all aren't aligned
on what a team does or exists,
that's important to get alignment.
Share with your partners, very helpful.
They know why your team exists and
it's clear and
that's also why being at
that high level is good.
No one's gonna read a 20 page
doc on what your team does.
They might, but
they're not gonna remember it and
you want them to at least be
able to remember it, Mark.
>> That reminded me of
something Jem said yesterday,
people find reward and
doing something difficult and challenging.
>> Yeah it shouldn't be easy, right,
it's sometimes taking the step back and
doing something is rewarding.
I feel like my team was happy with it,
I mean, I guess I should ask them,
I wish I have.
I'm, how was that exercise,
what would you do differently,
always be looking for feedback on it,
share it with customers, granted,
allright For me right now being in
productivity engineering my customers
are people like Jem, his team and so
I can share it with them for clarity.
When I worked on the acquisition UI team,
my customers were a lot of you
if you're Netflix subscribers.
I'm not gonna share it with all
the people subscribing to Netflix, so,
a grain of salt there
on the customer side.
And then this is an important one,
revisit it, revisit 1 to 2 times a year,
you do not need to do it every
other week or anything like that.
But just have some sort of cadence where
you're going back to it and saying,
are we still on this charter?
Maybe you're not, and that's okay,
sometimes teams evolve.
So you can revisit it, say maybe we need
to adjust or maybe we've gotten off path.
And so you can start to have
conversations around that.
There again, bring your team along for
that journey and
have those check-ins with them.
All right, let's recap, Jem, go ahead.
>> On the charter one, the what don't we
do, is one of the most important things
for my team, who I talked about yesterday,
but we own so much stuff.
And it's like defensive for me cuz I share
with partners and customers and I'm,
hey, this is the contract that we were
providing and people, okay, okay, okay.
So a lot of people don't read it.
But later, it saved me so many times in
this first year of taking over this new
team, which is just, hey, Jem,
your team owns that, right?
And I'm, nope, you see right here,
see that thing I showed you?
We don't own that,
we can have a conversation about it, but
we're gonna have to change this contract.
And I wanna make it really clear
about what we do and don't do.
So, it's one of those
as a software engineer,
I didn't appreciate
a charter as a manager.
It's so important to be, here's what my
team does and here's what we don't do..
>> I wanna also touch on 100% agree
with all the things you said, Jem,
but I also wanna touch on
as the engineering part.
Is I think that it's like it does help
your team maybe be that first line of
defense if they're asked for
something, too.
It's, they might get asked to
go do something, they're, no,
that's not part of our charter.
So it might not even hit your plate as
the manager, so that's also helpful, Mark.
>> Natalie says a documented charter
is a great contract between you and
your partners for when you find yourself
veering off the path to get back on it.
>> Absolutely, and like Jem said,
you can have a conversation
that maybe it needs to change.
Maybe you should own whatever
they're asking you to own,
but you need to have conversations.
You should not just de facto go own
something else because maybe you need more
resources.
Maybe it comes at the cost of something
else you have to reprioritize.
These are the conversations
you wanna have,
I think the charter does help
these conversations, Mark.
Is the creation and modification of the
team charter, a team exercise or something
that the manager creates and sort of
dictates or is it somewhere in between?
>> I think it's more in between,
I've seen it done where it is a little
more top down from the manager.
I think that's okay.
But I think it misses on things where
maybe the managers writes it up first and
then shares it with the team
to get their input.
But I really think it is a good shared
exercise, so that you can get that clarity
and alignment in a team setting, and
you will have people that disagree.
And so you wanna have those
conversations and hear them out,
maybe you are missing something.
So I absolutely believe her that it
should be a shared experience.
And not just, here's what we do, just take
it at face value and that's what it is.
So, it can kind of start
from maybe in the manager or
you can do what I've done of
doing breakouts with the team.
But ultimately, I think you want
your team's input on it, yeah, Mark.
>> Daniel asks, if you're a manager and
you have both internal and
external employees, do you include the
external ones in the charters, one on one,
growth plans, etc?
>> Its good question,
contractors or things like that.
I think it depends, it definitely depends.
I've managed teams where I've had
contractors that are very far removed from
the team.
I may not include them on the brainstorm
meaning getting that clarity,
but I'm sharing it with them.
I think that's really helpful for
them to have that context and
understanding of why the team exists.
I think it will help
them be more effective.
But it really depends, I've had also
contractors that are embedded in my team.
They may not be a full time employee,
but they're pretty embedded, so
I'm gonna treat them very much so and
want their opinion and thoughts on it.
So I think it just depends, and
I think use your judgment on that,
but it does help for them to see it, Mark.
>> How often do you revisit the charter,
and how often should we recalibrate it?
>> That's a good question.
I typically, in the past, and
probably sometimes even forget to do this,
but one to two times a year is good.
Or in Jem's case, when someone brings
something to your team and you're,
no, we don't do that.
But then you're, but who does?
And maybe that opens up the door
again to revisit the charter or
have those conversations.
So I think it's a living and
breathing document.
I mean, you can revisit it every week if
you want, but I don't think it should be
constantly changing because then that's
not bringing clarity to your team.
You don't have that path and
you can veer off a path, it's okay, but
you wanna be explicit and
thoughtful on that.
So I usually say, 1 to 2 times a year,
maybe once a quarter even,
that seems like a realistic
check in point on it